# new-project

A simple, opinionated Node.js project generator.

## Installation

Install it directly from here. Note that it's meant to be installed globally as a standalone utility.

```sh
# If you'd like to install it
npm install --global isiahmeadows/new-project
yarn global add https://github.com/isiahmeadows/new-project

# If you'd like to just run it
npx github:isiahmeadows/new-project
```

This will likely only work on the latest LTS + latest stable, and I can't make any guarantees beyond my own hardware.

## What is it?

It's a super simple Node.js project generator that doesn't take much intelligence to use, and it's one I use myself to get started quickly with ideas.\* It creates projects managed with [Git](https://git-scm.com), linted with [ESLint](https://eslint.org) using [my `isiahmeadows/node-4` preset](https://github.com/isiahmeadows/eslint-config-isiahmeadows), and tested with [Thallium](https://github.com/isiahmeadows/thallium). Creating a project is now just a single command away.

\* *Matter of fact, I initially created this repo using an earlier version of this very utility before uploading it.*

## Does it support Yarn?

Yes, it supports Yarn and it only falls back to npm when Yarn can't be found. I personally use Yarn quite frequently, so this is useful.

## Why not a Yeoman generator or similar?

1. I've had *way* too many issues with getting existing Yeoman generators to work. It's often faster to just manually do anything than fighting with the many broken generators I've dealt with.
2. You're installing something anyways. Why waste time installing a module integrating with another module, when all you need is a simple single-purpose generator.
3. I've never really been that sold on the idea of a boilerplate generator, especially when most of them generate mostly *boilerplate*.
4. Integrating with Yeoman is way more complicated than just writing a simple Node script that takes a few parameters. Mine happens to be dependency-free.

## Why not just a boilerplate repository?

1. It's easier to run a generator than a `git clone`. Using my generator is just two commands: `new-project my-project && cd my-project`. Installing a boilerplate repo requires much more work: copy the URL, type `git clone <url>`, run `npm install`, and fix all the generic names to match your project.
2. Generators make for a much more customizable experience. Boilerplate repositories require that you edit out all the generic names to rebrand it as the name you wanted to use. In that amount of time, you could've been coding up that perfect idea you had! :smile:

## What does it feature?

- A simple, easy to understand project layout.
- [ESLint](https://eslint.org) for linting, with [my preset](https://github.com/isiahmeadows/eslint-config-isiahmeadows) already set up.
- [Thallium](https://github.com/isiahmeadows/thallium), my minimalistic, but batteries included, testing framework for testing.
- Minimal configuration required.
- Much quicker than a heavy generator.

## How do I use the resulting project?

1. If you haven't already, run `npm install -g thallium`. This installs Thallium globally for you, and gives you access to the global `tl` command.

2. Make sure [ESLint](https://eslint.org) is [integrated into your editor](http://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/integrations#editors), so it can check your work for you while you go. For example, in Atom, make sure both `linter` and `linter-eslint` are installed.

3. Write your source code in `lib/`. It's all using plain CommonJS and Node with its great ES6 support. No transpiling required, which makes debugging much easier and your code much faster.

4. Write your tests in `test/`. [Thallium's API](https://github.com/isiahmeadows/thallium/blob/master/docs/api.md) is fairly easy to learn, and the grunt work in setting it up is already done. If you need help getting started with learning Thallium's API, [check this out](https://github.com/isiahmeadows/thallium/blob/master/docs/getting-started.md).

5. When you're ready to test, just run `tl`.

## What does it generate?

The repo generated by this is an uninitialized Git repository, with the latest versions of ESLint, Thallium, and my 'isiahmeadows/node-4' preset (by default) already installed via 'npm install' and fully configured. It has the following structure:

-   `project/`

    -   `.git/`

        Your git directory

    -   `node_modules/`

        The newly installed modules with their dependencies:

        - `thallium`
        - `eslint`
        - `eslint-config-isiahmeadows`

    -   `.gitignore`

        A basic config file telling Git to ignore these files in the root:

        - `node_modules`
        - `npm-debug.log`
        - `.eslintcache`

    -   `.eslintignore`

        An exact clone of the `.gitignore` file

    -   `.eslintrc.yml`

        An ESLint config featuring my ESLint preset.

    -   `.tl.js`

        A simple Thallium config. This file is technically optional, and just carries the defaults, but it's here so you can customize it later. (Say, you prefer a different reporter than the default 'spec' reporter, or you now have mocks, and you want to ignore that directory.)

    -   `README.md`

        The repository's README file, started for you with the module name and description. You can then just open the file.

    -   `lib/`

        The library code for the repository lives here.

        -   `index.js`

            The entry point for the library.

    -   `test/`

        The test code for the repository lives here. Thallium will run
        everything here, by you just running 'tl'.

        -   index.js

            A dummy test file for 'lib/index.js'.

## Why did I make this?

It's simple and straightforward enough that I've been doing most of this setup work myself without a generator, but I decided one binary should be able to do it all for me, hence why I wrote this. I may be fairly adverse normally to a generator, but I eventually got tired doing the same 10 or so initial steps for most of my projects.

## Found an issue?

You can email me, tweet at me, file an issue in this utility's GitHub repo (https://github.com/isiahmeadows/new-project/issues/new), or however you feel it's best to get to me. Whatever works for you works for me.

## License

ISC License.

Copyright (c) 2017, Isiah Meadows.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software for any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
